## The Martian Wars
In the 1960s, multiple soviet Mariner space probes suddenly went dark when approaching Mars. Sensors on Earth showed an energy pulse from the moment it was destroyed, originating from the Martian surface. Martian deep-space citadels in the Lagrange points were discovered, and an envoy ship sent to greet one was vaporized. The existential threat of Martian invasion was a key driving force in the major investment in space science and infrastructure, as well as the martial alliance of all major earth powers.

That martian wars consisted of several brutal but short periods of wars as the two planets launched huge barrages of weapons from afar. Each time the interplanetary weapons of both planets would destroy stations, ships, and colonies of each other. In the final barrage, an earth space elevator was destroyed, crashing onto the planet, and the Martian moon of Deimos was shattered. That, along with millions of civilian casualties on both sides caused both governments to finally make peace, and the Human Commonwealth was formed.
## Planetology
The surface of Mars is mostly a windswept desert, but red-colored plants grow from cracks in the ground. Ancient Martians built enormous channels on their planet, which bring water from the polar caps to the equator where large craters safe from dust storms can be found. This is where the martian capital city of Utopia Planitia City can be found, a sprawling megalopolis in a crater with a population of 100 million, and the only city in which Humans are allowed without approval.

The rest of the planet is nowhere near uninhabited though, many small cities exist in canyons and craters across the planets, and small shielded towns exist in the windswept deserts. The dust carried by the wind is collected in many places as it contains valuable minerals. Closer to the poles there are forests of red trees, and pentapodal creatures living in caves and hollows. 
## Scientific Pursuit
The Martian culture values learning, and Martians live for up to several hundred years. They spend much of their time studying, and the Martian Council focuses its efforts on scientific research. They have developed extremely advanced technologies, and many of them are kept secret. Martian science posts can be found in all corners of the solar system, including on foreign planets. Martian science stations look like mirrored elongated spheres, ending in a parabola on both ends
## Spacecraft
Mars has built three Citadels in deep-space, one opposite Mars in it's orbit, and one leading and trailing. These serve as communications relays, and military centers, and no non-approved spacecrafts are allowed within 100,000km. The one trailing in it's orbit is still being rebuilt after being completely destroyed in the Martian Wars.

Mars invented the modern fusion generator, and Martian ships are known for their reliability and Resilience. They are prized by merchants, and mercenaries alike across the system. They have a signature look, being shaped like giant parabolic curves, covered in silvery shielding. Most are not armed, but some have weapons strapped to the outside.