Don't hide stuff from your players, avoid slow-burns and foreshadowing more than a few sessions ahead. Stuff goes fast in this setting, and if players dedicate themselves they should be able to quickly become renowned and make progress in the world. Even after one adventure, NPCs should mention that they have heard of the players. Encourage the players to come up with a group name for themselves. NPCs should tend to be nice and speak their mind rather than keep their secrets, or at least to talk a lot about something.  

The game is preferably played without computers, using paper sheets and notes where possible. This is not a strict rule, and the GM may use a computer for notes or to consult the rules.
## Finding Players
## Getting Player Input
## Rule of Cool
Like some other systems, EXO-2040 is designed to encourage players to be creative, give cool descriptions of their characters actions, and come up with creative solutions to problems rather than following a strictly planned path. Unlike some other games, though, there is no explicit system for this, as such a system can let less creative players and those without a good understanding of the fantasy of the world feel left out. Instead the responsibility falls on the GM to make the game feel fun to play and to reward players for good ideas. Rather than granting and advantage for describing and action, the GM can instead play along and describe the reaction in a similar fashion, as this form of role-playing is its own reward for some players. When players come up with a creative or unintended solution, you should allow it to work unless it is completely nonsensical, even changing stuff in the background in order to make it work if necessary, within reason.
## Pushing the Rules
If a player wants to do something that pushes or breaks the games rules, allow the players to spend some luck points to accomplish it, setting a cost based on how much of an advantage can be gained from it. This should not allow players to exploit the rules for serious advantage, and shoudn't be used regularly, so consider increasing the luck point cost by one each time they try to do the same thing.·​Missing Players
When a player is missing, their character remains in the story, but ceases to be a protagonist. They may accompany the other players if needed, or if they should be available in case the player returns, but will otherwise stay out of adventures or trouble. During a combat encounter, this player will be off in the background, fighting other combatants, not being modeled by the combat system, but may end up with a few d6s of damage. During ship combat, they can maintain basic ship functions, but leave important / risk tasks to the player characters. If the player characters enter into a conversation with them, the you can summarize their response, keeping in mind the personality of the character.
## Prefer Analog Play
While the game's resources are more suited to virtual viewing then printing out, it is recommended that players not bring laptops or tablets to game sessions to minimize distraction. The GM may want a laptop for accessing the game source and their notes, but for players phones should be sufficient to look up information when needed. It is also highly recommended that this game be played in person rather than virtually.
## Cutting it Short
Sometimes an encounter or even an entire session can begin to drag on and you and/or your players may find yourself bored or looking forward to whatever will happen next. One when person at the table is having a bad time, it can quickly spread. For this reason it is important to know when to call a session early, and when and how to wrap up an encounter before it's natural conclusion. The best way to end an encounter early is to bring it to a climactic end, to one turn, or a few rolls. For instance during a spaceship chase you could say "both ships have been stressed and are on the verge of overheating, whichever ship rolls better this next turn will in the chase." Or during a combat encounter you could say "The gang members seem somewhat intimidated, but are clearly competent fighters. If you can strike a decisive victory this turn they will probably run off, if not, you might consider doing the same."