## Fusion
A self-sustaining fusion reaction can be caused through magnetic confinement- **Max Damage** - 14 in a doughnut shape, using trilium (he-3) mined on the moon, and built using expensive rare-earth minerals mined from asteroids. This fusion releases a plasma that glows a pale magenta, and is a common source of power running through ships. Large toruses (sometimes kilometers across) spin due to the magnetic field generated by an internal ring of plasma, causing static sparks which power capacitors to produce energy for large ships or settlements. Smaller outposts or ships use linear containment with plasma with input on one end for power and an afterburner jet type engine on the other for thrust. 
## Robots
Though uncommon due to their high price, robots are not uncommon. Most are built out of metal and use loud pneumatic actuators, but the expensive ones have limbs that float disconnected with electromagnets. They are usually between human height down to half that, but must use wheels or 6 small legs as bipedal ones are slow and unstable. Many are powered by a plasma tank that needs to be refilled every 8 hours or so, others are atomic.

The most common ones are the Servidroids™, light teal robots with 6 legs and a central rolling ball, about 1.2m tall, with two stiff and two flexible arms, two shelves accessible from all sides as large as their torso, and a central core with various pipes running through. They have a disco-ball for a head that rotates slowly and they beep and whir when confused. There are also a variety of robots shaped like small tables with walking legs.
## Computators
Computators are devices used to control large ships, stations, or for other purposes. They are controlled through a typewriter terminal, typed out onto a paper roll, and then typewriter automatically prints the output. Without special skill, they are extremely difficult to use. Small computators are just the size of briefcase, larger ones are the size of rooms. They can be given a prompt in plain text and answer using strict logic, and only information available to them. More advanced questions may require an Int + **{Computators}** Check
## Communicator
Small communicators are flip-phone like devices which communicate like walkie-talkies that have a maximum range of 1km, but can be configured to go through various relays to communicate over long distances with an Int + **{Comms}** check. Ships and stations often have larger antennas, the range of an antenna scales linearly with its volume and power consumption. When a communicator is opened, it must be initialized with a command phrase:
	\[Identification of User\] to \[Identification of Recipient] 
The message will be automatically routed and future communications both ways will use the same line.
Larger communicators such as those on ships have a range of up to 10km.
All communicators can get a week connection at up to twice the range, often with a corrupted signal, a comms checks may be required.
## Photonic Cables
Large bundled cables that transfer date, data moves at about 10m/s so large computator systems try to be as compact as possible. The bundle of data can be seen as a glowing spot moving along the cable. Cables transferring lots of data might be glowing permanently.
## Artificial Gravity
Artificial gravity is created by electrifying a material made of layered sheets of metal, to generate an attraction force like gravity only in one direction. It is sometimes referred to as "arti-grav."
## Void-Suits
Metallic suits worn to protect from the radiation and vaccum of space. Some are closer to skin-tight while others are more bulk. Some are painted and have logos or insignia, and some have built-in armor. They have a convenient toggle control that slides up or retracts a bubble over the wearer's head, attachable to an oxygen tank at the hip or on the back.  Many have magnetic mounts on the sides for tools or weapons.
## Universal Implant
Given to all citizens by the Human Commonwealth, willingly taken by most spacefaring Martians and Venusians. Implanted into the wrist, sometimes removed by outlaws. Allows the user to prove their identity, and can translate all incoming speech from standard languages. Thanks to this and other forms of translators, the language barrier is usually ignored in the game except for some extremely alien languages.