### Fusion
A self-sustaining fusion reaction can be caused through magnetic confinement in a doughnut shape, using trilium (he-3) mined on the moon, and built using expensive rare-earth minerals mined from asteroids. This fusion releases a plasma that glows a pale magenta, and is a common source of power running through ships. Large toruses (sometimes kilometers across) spin due to the magnetic field generated by an internal ring of plasma, causing static sparks which power capacitors to produce energy for large ships or settlements. Smaller outposts or ships use linear containment with plasma with input on one end for power and an afterburner jet type engine on the other for thrust. 
### Robots
Though uncommon due to their high price, robots are not uncommon. Most are built out of metal and use loud pnumatic actuators, but the expensive ones have limbs that float disconnected with electromagnets. They are usually between human height down to half that, but must use wheels or 6 small legs as bipedal ones are slow and unstable. Many are powered by a plasma tank that needs to be refilled every 8 hours or so, others are atomic. The most common ones are the Servidroids™, light teal robots with 6 legs and a central rolling ball, about 1.2m tall, with two stiff and two flexible arms, two shelves accesible from all sides as large as their torso, and a central core with various pipes running through. They have a disco-ball for a head that rotates slowly and they beep and whir when confused. 
### Computators
Computators are devices used to control large ships, stations, or for other purposes. They are controlled through a typewriter terminal, typed out onto a paper roll, and then typewriter automatically prints the output. Without special skill, they are extremely difficult to use. Small computators are just the size of briefcase, larger ones are the size of rooms. They can be given a prompt in plain text and answer using strict logic, and only information available to them. More advanced questions may require an Int + {Computators} Check
### Communicator
Small communicators are flip-phone like devices which communicate like walkey-talkeys that have a maximum range of 1km, but can be configured to go through various relays to communicate over long distances with an Int + {Comms} check. Ships and stations often have larger antennas, the range of an antenna scales linearly with its volume and power consumption.
### Photonic Cables
Large bundled cables that transfer date, data moves at about 10m/s so large computator systems try to be as compact as possible. The bundle of data can be seen as a glowing spot moving along the cable. Cables transferring lots of data might be glowing permanently.
### Artificial Gravity
Artificial gravity is generated in 